# 2025 QA Pass

## Requirements
In this pass, we will:

-   Check collision meshes
-   Check category interchangeability
-   Check category-level orientations
-   Check fillable meshes
-   Check for joint issues

This pass involves a fast-complaint system (instead of typing through the questions you just press one of a few hotkeys) to help improve turnaround time.The goal is to finish this pass this week! **Reminder that the goal of this pass is to identify ALL release blockers while keeping any unnecessary or optional requests to an ABSOLUTE MINIMUM!!!**

Here's the batch tracking spreadsheet:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10L8wjNDvr1XYMMHas4IYYP9ZK7TfQHu--Kzoi0qhAe4/edit?gid=354366018#gid=354366018

## Steps
1.  Clone the repo and set the env up as described in its readme.
    1.  git pull on main if you already have a copy.
2.  Pull the object inventory using dvc: `dvc pull artifacts/pipeline/object_inventory.json`.
4.  Create a directory for your work inside the asset_pipeline directory: `mkdir qa-2025`
5.  Making sure you are in the `omnigibson` environment, and install `scikit-learn` and `fs` using pip.
6.  Checkout the unblock-qa branch of omnigibson.
7.  Install the dataset release candidate you'll find here <https://storage.googleapis.com/gibson_scenes/og_dataset_1_2_0rc2.zip>
8.  Make sure you have the latest BDDL installed. To do this, uninstall any pip installed BDDL (`pip uninstall bddl`), then clone the repo and checkout the develop branch, then run `pip install -e .`
9.  Pick an undone batch from the spreadsheet above. Put your name down next to it. Then run the command to get started:  `python -m b1k_pipeline.tools.category_qa --record_path=qa-2025 --id $BATCH_ID --total_ids 20 --seed potato` Make sure that you keep total ids and the seed the same and just enter your batch ID in the spot marked $BATCH_ID.
10. You will be presented the objects as batches. Usually 1 batch == 1 category, but if the category has > 20 objects, then the category will be split into multiple batches. For each batch:
    1.  First observe the entire category with the camera moving side-to-side to understand the full diversity of objects in the category. Come up with an idea of which way is "front" for the object. Use numpad 7-9 to pan the camera.
    2.  Then, if needed, rotate the entire category using the numpad keys to match the below canonical orientation definition:
        1.  For objects that could be used without being fixed base, the canonical orientation is a common stable orientation where the object's X+ direction is still "front" in some sense (e.g. an iPhone with Z+ facing out the screen, and X+ facing out the direction of the home button)
        2.  For objects that are always fixed & structural (doors, windows, walls, floors), Z+ should point in the same direction it would in the usual placement of the object, and X+ should point out the front (e.g. a door should NOT be lying on its face!)
    3.  Hit NUMPAD enter to continue with the per-object part. For each object:
        1.  Check the canonical size and update it if necessary
        2.  Check the canonical orientation and update if necessary
        3.  Check the category, and if you think the category name doesn't match the object, or the object is not quite interchangeable with the rest of the category, press the 1 key (NOT the numpad one) to lodge a category/synset complaint
        4.  Check the visual appearance, and if you see any MUST-FIX issues, press the 2 key (NOT the numpad one) to lodge an appearance complaint
        5.  Check collision mesh. Use the C button to toggle the collision meshes on and off. If there's a collision mesh problem explicitly involving a handle, press 3 to lodge a handle complaint. If there is any other kind of collision problem, press 4 to lodge a generic collision complaint.
        6.  Check joints. Hit J to enable joint motion. If you notice anything wrong (missing joints, bad motion, bad limit, etc) hit 5 to lodge a joint complaint
        7.  Check meta links. Hit M to toggle meta link visibility. Carefully examine toggle buttons and fillable meshes especially, but other meta links too. Pay careful attention to slicer/particleremover/etc meta links that do not correctly touch the object. Hit 6 to lodge a meta link complaint if needed.
        8.  Take a general look at the object and hit 7 if you think there is something else wrong that I should take a look at.
        9.  Hit enter and look at the console window to decide which of the existing complaints you want to keep (e.g. are still relevant)
        10. At the end, the object's information gets saved to a JSON file and you move onto a new object.
11. At the end of the whole batch, mark the batch as done on the spreadsheet, move onto a new one.
12. When done with all work, zip up your qa-2025 directory and send it to me here.

Please also give me an estimate of how much time an object takes on average. **Since this is one of our final passes, it is CRUCIAL that we do this properly. Doing it slowly and properly is more important than finishing quickly. I know it's really tedious but please take the time to properly conduct the QA. If you have any questions or are unsure please skip and let me know.**
